---
slug: '2019/07/how-javascript-scoping-var-variables-works'
author: 'Raymon'
date: '2019-07-17'
title: "How JavaScript scoping works with var variable"
categories: ['JavaScript']
tags: ['JavaScript', 'codenewbie', 'basics', 'scope']
excerpt: "Learn how the JavaScript scoping works with var variables? In this blog I will tell you all about it 😉"
banner: './javascript-var-scope.png'
published: true
---

*In this blog you will learn how the scope works with var variable in the **‌global scope** and **local scope**. What you can do with it and why it is important to learn this concept.*

## Type of scopes

What is the scope? A function is used to create a scope which decides the accessibility and visibility of variables, functions, and objects.

In JavaScript, we have 2 types of scopes.

- [Global scope](#what-is-the-global-scope)
- [Local scope](#what-is-the-local-scope)

### What is the global scope

The global scope is basically the `window` object. Which is accessible from everywhere in your application. If you want to make a variable, function or object visible for all other scopes than put it in the global scope.

But be aware not to put everything in the global scope. The `window` object is already packed with a lot of information. So if you don't need it everywhere put if in a local scope.

### What is the local scope

A local scope is created by a function. That function can make variables, objects and inner functions hidden or visible from outside the function.

### How to create a scope

To create a scope you only need a function. Where you can put in variables, functions, and objects which then are not accessible outside the function. The only way to make it visible and accessible is by returning them with the `return` statement.

## The "var" variable

The `var` keyword can be used everywhere. It can contain Strings, Int, Object, Array, Function. 

Variables can be used for everything, but also everywhere. You can access a `var` from inside a function, object, if-else statement, really everywhere! 

That maybe sounds cool but can have a big effect on the predictability of a website or web-application.

### Globally scoped

A `var` is or can be globally scoped. Cool to access everything from inside anything! But is that good? There are a few alternatives ahead. There are called `let` and `const`. They have different behavior than `var`. But let's talk about that later.

### "var" can be changed later

A variable can be defined with a string, later on, reassigned to an integer and later it could be a function.  That is its power but also a weakness.

``` javascript
    var globalVariable;
    globalVariable = 'I Love Pizza!';
    console.log(globalVariable); // Will be 'I Love Pizza!'
```

Now I defined a global variable (_yes I do love pizza_ 😉), right after it I added a string to it. So you can see, you can define it and later on change it to the other value.

``` javascript
    
    var globalVariable;
    globalVariable = 'I Love Pizza!';
    function iChangeTheVariable() {
		           globalVariable = [59, 600, 843];
    }

    iChangeTheVariable();

    console.log(globalVariable); // Will be [59, 600, 843]
```

So guess what, the `globalVariable` is changed. Sounds cool right! Well If you intended to change it, yes! But if you didn't know that you already used that variable, then it is a problem! There is the **weakness**!!

### Can be locally scoped

Now you can see the danger of globally scoped variables. So if I may advise you, never use globally scoped variables.

    (function() {
        var var1 = 'variable 1 value in parent scope';

        (function() {
            // Scope 1
            var1 = 'variable 1 value in scope 1';
            console.log('scope 1: ', var1); // Is 'variable 1 value in scope 1'
        }());

        (function() {
            // Scope 2
            var1 = 'variable 1 value in scope 2';
            console.log('scope 2: ', var1); // Is 'variable 1 value in scope 2'
        }());

        console.log('Parent scope: ', var1); // Is 'variable 1 value in parent scope'

    }());
    console.log('Global scope: ', var1); // Is undefined


You can make the variable locally scoped, by putting it inside a function. Like the example here, if you execute the function in your console, the last `console.log()` with "Parent scope" in it, will be changed by the one before it!

## Good luck!

If you are learning JavaScript right now, I can imagine that you

If something is not clear or confusing about `var`, `let` or `const` please add your questions to the comments!